OMO
---

The goal of this project is to provide a way to organize and play back your
entire music collection. I grew up listening to music on a computer and have a
large collection of music in various formats. In the past I had used Winamp for
its extensive support for audio formats through input plugins.

Since moving away from Windows several years ago, I've not really had a good
way to play back a large portion of my music collection. I seek to change that
situation with OMO. That music disk I downloaded from a BBS 25 years ago will
live happily alongside that album I downloaded from Amazon last week.

OMO leverages the power of the Internet to help you organize your collection by
pulling tags submitted by others. Tag your own untagged music and submit those
tags so others don't have to duplicate the work.


Supported Formats
-----------------

OMO currently supports playing back files in these formats on all supported
platforms: MP3, MP2, MPG, MOD, S3M, XM, IT, 669, AMF, DSM, MTM, OKT, PSM, PTM,
STM, UMX, J2B, WAV, VOC, OGG, FLAC, OPUS, AY, GBS, GYM, HES, KSS, NSF, SAP,
SPC, VGM, VGZ, ADL, AMD, BAM, CFF, CMF, D00, DFM, DMO, DRO, DTM, HSC, HSP, IMF,
KSM, LAA, LDS, M, MAD, MDI, MKJ, MSC, MTK, RAD, RIX, ROL, SA2, SAT, SCI, SNG,
XAD, XMS, XSM, MID, RMI, and YM.

Additional support for these formats is available on MacOS: MP4, M4A, AAC.

Supported for more formats on all platforms may be added in the future.


Installation
------------

MacOS: Open the DMG and drag the OMO application to the Applications folder.

Linux: Use dpkg -i <package_file>, then apt-get install -f.

Windows: Extract the ZIP file wherever you want and create a shortcut to
         omo.exe.


Prominent Features
------------------

OMO is designed to make it as quick and easy as possible to organize and play
back your entire music collection. It supports a wide variety of file formats
and has a built in library to help you organize and find the music you want.

Here are a few things that you can do with OMO:

* Open music stored in archives such as ZIP and RAR files.
* Use it as a simple music player to play back your music files, or scan your
  entire library so you can easily browse your music by artist, album, and
  song title.
* Tag your obscure music files and share those tags online so others don't have
  to duplicate your efforts. Your library tags are automatically synced, so
  other OMO users will have the latest tags available to them as soon as you
  hit Okay in the tags editor.
* Keep track of and listen to individual songs even if there are multiple songs
  stored in a single file.
* Create profiles, each with their own library settings. Each profile has its
  own library folder and filter settings. You can easily switch between
  profiles to quickly get to the music you want to listen to.
* Quickly open music using the command line or drag and drop music onto the OMO
  icon.
* Quickly queue up songs by artist or album. Double-clicking an artist in the
  library will queue up all songs by that artist. Double-clicking an album will
  queue up that specific album, sorted by disc and track number if that
  information is available.


Getting Started
---------------

The first time you run OMO, you will be presented with a simple queue window.
You can add music to the queue by using the menu items, or the Open or Add
buttons in the queue window. When opening files, playback will automatically
begin. Use the playback buttons in the queue window to move between tracks,
pause, or stop playback.

To use the library features, you must first tell OMO where your music is
located. Use 'Library->Add Music Folder' and select a folder where OMO can find
your music files. You can add as many folders as you like and OMO will check
them all.

Once you have told OMO where to find your music, it will scan your music
collection. This process will be performed in the background so you can
continue to use OMO to play back your music files. The library scanning process
can take a long time if you have a large library. You can check the progress by
opening up the library view ('View->Library'). If you close OMO, it will resume
scanning your library next time you open it.

The library scanner will retrieve as much metadata on each file as it can find.
Tags are retrieved from the file itself and the OMO online tags database.


Tagging Your Music
------------------

Once you have set up a library folder, you can start tagging your music. To
open the tags editor, select a file in the song list pane in library view
(pane 3) or the queue list and press T. You can also access this functionality
by selecting 'Edit Tags' from the Playback or Library menu.

When opening the tags editor, OMO will retrieve any tags for the selected song
from the OMO online tags database. Hitting Okay will accept the tags as
displayed and store them in your library. Any tags you edit will automatically
be submitted to the OMO online tags database using the current tagger key.

You can get a personalized tagger key using the 'Get Tagger Key' option in the
File menu. The tagger name you choose will be stored in our database, so keep
that in mind if you have privacy concerns. Don't put personal information you
are not comfortable sharing to everyone in your tagger name.


Linux MIDI Support
------------------

On Linux, MIDI support is a little complicated. Since most computers don't come
with built-in hardware MIDI synthesizers, many operating systems provide a
software synthesizer that can be used for MIDI playback.

On Linux, we don't get a built-in software synthesizer, so we rely on third
party software synthesizers. If your computer has a hardware synthesizer, OMO
will happily play music through that hardware utilizing the ALSA sequencer. If
your computer lacks a hardware synthesizer, you will have to do a little extra
work to get things set up for OMO to play back MIDI files.

The two most common software synthesizers on Linux are TiMidity++ and
FluidSynth. TiMidity++ is incompatible with OMO due to OMO's use of PulseAudio
for audio support. FluidSynth works fine, though. On Linux, OMO will look for
FluidSynth when attempting to play back MIDI files. If it's not found, OMO will
then use the first available device (which should be your hardware synth, if
you have one).

Unfortunately, installing FluidSynth won't give you a system-wide software
synthesizer in the same way other platforms do. You will have to manually run
FluidSynth before OMO can use it. There is a GUI front-end for FluidSynth called
Qsynth which makes the process a little more user-friendly.


Contacting Us
-------------

E-Mail: todd@t3-i.com
